Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform.
Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Show number
four 99. In this episode,
Scott talks with Monica and
Koleski from Google about web
components and the Palomo project.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Monica,  from Google
and she works on Google
Chrome and polymer. How are
you? Not too bad. Hi,
thank you so much for
having me. This is my
first ever podcast is really,
yeah, I've done some amazing
stuff on the internet, some
of the, which we're going
to discuss today, but I
think the most important, the
most influential thing that I've
seen that you have worked
on was a DNS server
that does what It resolves
everything to cats. So I
thought that the thing that
everybody wants in their life
is to look at cat
images, which is true. But
instead of going to search
for your images, I thought
that you should just open
your browser and try to
go to anything useful like
Google or your email. And
instead of getting anything useful,
you would get a cat.
And that's what that does
Just images or any HDP
requests. It's images, it's images
from anger. So there's this
static go server that just
gets cademy just from Reddit
and like stores in there
for you. And it has
to be a static IP.
So that's what it does.
And it just gives you
a random chat image from
anger. That's so cool. I
wonder if you could use
that for like layout, like
there's different, there's different tools
that lets you find like
when you need images and
you don't have the images.
Yes. I thought my next
troll one, if I, so
the greatest one is that
if you have like open
wifi and you let people
connect to it, you can
like mess up your router
and they will get cats
too. So you can just
stroll your neighbors and then
you can get really creepy.
Like you can randomly flip
images on a webpage, but
randomly so that sometimes you
get everything backwards, but sometimes
their website looks normal. That's
so evil. I think that
the fun thing about messing
with like DNS and the
web like that is that
everyone's going to think they
have a virus or a
bad plugin or an extension,
and it's all done downstream,
upstream Instead. You've just said,
Monica is amazing. Wifi have
fun. So The thing that
I wanted to talk to
you about that I want
to better understand is what
web components are, what polymer
is and what it means
to the average Jane and
Joe out there who are
listening and doing web development.
Cool. So let's start with
web components. So we providing
HTML for a long time
and we have like dibs
and AEs and inputs and
buttons and that's about it,
right? And the platform hasn't
really changed. Sometimes we get
new input types, like input
type equals date and break
cited, but it's still just
input, right? We haven't gotten
new texts. So what component
is basically your own custom
element you get to create,
I don't know, Monica's cat
box of cats and it's
a tag. It's an HTML
tag. And it's as if
the browser always knew what
that was. So you're saying
literally I would say open
brace or open bracket, Monica
is crazy box of cats
closed and that is a
tag. Just like tackle it.
Yeah. That is an element
like table is an element
is just your thing. And
you've developed it and your
browser knows what it is.
It knows what it means,
and this is coming natively.
So it's very slowly progressing
because it's actually really hard
to implement this in all
the browsers, but this is
what a web component is.
And it's really nice because
much like HTML works with
everything on the web, because
it's just an extension of
HTML. It's going to work
with anything on the web.
So it's going to go
work with whatever crazy framework
you're using react or Ember
or bootstrap where it doesn't
matter. It's just HTML. When
people learned HTML like 15,
20 years ago, one of
the first things that we
teach when we were teaching
HTML like three, is that
we would make a tag
and then we'd make up
a tag, you know, open
bracket Scott. And we would
simply notice that it was
ignored. Right, Right. So there's
magic. Now that's being built
in the browsers where you
would have an associated like
HTML file. So if you
want to open bracket squat,
it wouldn't have to be
like a squat dash something
because we're allowing one words
to belong to the browser
in case the browser wants
to extend it. So you
would have, let's say Scott
dash element God, Right? Yeah.
Like dates. Like if I
was to make my own
calendar Exactly. Squad slash date,
and then you would have
a corresponding HTML import that
would be squad dash day
dot HTML. And that's what
he would define what squad
dash date means. So it
would have markup, it would
have some its own HTML.
What it looks like would
have some styles. It had,
it could have like a
ton of JavaScript about what
it actually does, but at
the end of the day,
all of that gets built
up in this nice little
box called Scott dash date.
Okay. So how is that
different from me saying div
class Scott dash date? Good
question. So I really like
HTML and I really like
CSS and there's this thing
that drives me insane where
CSS is not encapsulated in
any way. Everything's global. All
the styles are global. So
if I, you know, important
to libraries, this is the,
the example that I usually
do. You're styling your application
and you have a button
and you're not really great
at CSS. Are you going
to import these two random
libraries that are going to
style this button and make
it really pretty? Cause you
want it to, one of
them is going to be
glowing and one of them
is going to be, I
don't know, shiny, but if
those libraries are designed poorly,
they might ask you to
add the same class to
these two different buttons. And
there's no NCSS to tell
it, listen, I just want
this particular CSS important to
apply to this particular button
is going to apply to
anything in your application. And
the thing about web components
is that everything's encapsulated to
that element. So it doesn't
matter what CSS classes, your
web component uses. They just
live inside of that. Instead
of that element, you can
think of it as a
castle. This is the analogy
that I usually use. It's
a castle and everything lives
inside of it. So it's
not going to go out
and it's not like your
other styles are not going
to like leak in. So
it was a scoping thing.
So now we need drop
it's exactly how you've never
been able to like interact
with input by just like
making random classes, like side
effecting input type equals date
to be pretty. It's always
ugly, no matter what you
do. So squad dash date,
whatever it uses, it just
stays inside Scottish date. It
doesn't come out the end
alone component. Cause I, I
see I'm always in PR
I think we're all we
know the web well enough
that we're always impressed when
things can change a page
or inject themselves into the
page without messing up the
page. Like one of the
most interesting things that I've
ever seen it was bookmarklets
like delicious or Pinterest that
almost add their own interaction
model and inject dibs into
a page with their own
style and their own everything.
And they're so smart about
scoping that they don't mess
up the page for anybody.
Yeah. But that's just, that's
sort of magical because they
use like super obscure class
names that they're hoping they're
never going to hit, but
I made a really dumb
bookmarklet ones that basically translated
English words to emoji and
the way I would do
it, I was just like
parse every single word in
the page. And if I
knew what that was called
an emoji, I would just
replace it. But it just
basically wrapped my span in
a tag called emoji and
I knew how to style
it. So eventually I hit
a page where if you
use my bookmarklet, it would
just like break everything and
it was a disaster. Okay.
That makes sense. And the
other super nice thing about
what components does that because
they're HTML, they work with
everything. So sometimes you're going
to run into problems. Like,
I don't know, you can't
use Ember and react together,
right? They're not things that
you can drop in a
page and they're going to
commute. Even though they have
an idea about their own
customer components, you can just
use them together. But because
what components are part of
the platform, there are thing
that the browser cares about.
They can be used with
any framework. So they're super
reusable and super friendly. Why
do some people think that
web components is like controversial
Because changing the Dom is
hard and scary, I think
is one of the things.
And because they would allow
you to you, you have
to trust that this component
that you're using has been
developed well. But I think
this is the same problem
that you have with any
library. Like the moment you
commit to using somebody else's
code, you have to trust
that their code was written
in a good way. So
sometimes you can use maybe
what components are a slope
that are going to like
slow down your rendering. But
it's, I think that's like,
I think that's going to
start being fixed as they
become more popular because they're
so new that right now
we don't have any web
components. We have polymer web
components because say node polymer
helps you. Right. But components.
But because what components right
now only work natively in
Chrome. Basically. They're not very
popular. Nobody wants to write
just actresses, just work in
Chrome. So, so let's talk
about that. You said they
work natively in Chrome. I
think that people who are
listening may have heard the
word polyfill before, help me
understand the difference between when
someone says, Hey, this would
be cool. If the web
did this, then they write
a JavaScript library that kind
of like fakes it or
99% makes it work. And
then it becomes quote native.
Yeah. So poly fill is
actually really funny. It comes
from the brand of this
English thing. You know, when
you have a hole in
the wall and then you
have this like white specky
thing and you put it
in your hole and then
you paint over it and
Spackle on the West coast
of the U S It's
called poly. The brand is
called polyfill in the UK.
So this is exactly what
it is. You have a
whole on the web platform,
for example, the shadow Dom,
the shadow Dom doesn't exist,
let's say in internet Explorer,
10, and you really want
to use features from the
shadow dump. So there's a
JavaScript library. That's going to
run before your page loads.
It's going to be the
first thing that your browser
hits and the first, and
the only thing that this
JavaScript library is going to
do is basically fill this
gap that you want to
use. So it's going to
fill it with spackle and
you're going to paint over
it. And now when your
page is ready to load,
your code is like, Oh,
look, that hole is fixed.
I know exactly what that
code is supposed to do.
So you now have this
magical functionality that isn't natively
available in your browser. Okay.
So I've got a browser
that understands, you know, geolocation
natively. It goes to your
location. But if I have
that one, it doesn't use
geolocation. Maybe I can fake
it exactly with a poly
cell with a polyfill. Okay.
So then you're saying that
web components is something that
we, you know, we, the
people, or some people want
to be native. It isn't
yes. Are there polyfills to
fake it? So welcome. So
we have finally agreed all
of us as browser vendors,
that web components are a
thing we like, and what
components has about four different
polyfills under it. There's this
thing called the shadow Dom,
which lets you basically encapsulate
all of this custom HTML
into like one new brand
new tag, whereas HTML imports,
there's the actual custom elements.
So how do we do
we actually tell the browser,
this is the custom element
and there's a fourth one
that I can think about
right now Because like, is
it because you can't remember
it or, cause it's weird
because I can't remember templates
Templates. Thank you. So yeah.
So templates are how you
would read, thank you so
much or how you would
reuse these enough. You would
have used the same, basically
a blueprint for every element.
And those all seem like
things that are like individually,
like totally useful things we
would want. Like I know
people have been talking about
the shadow Dom for like
five years and everyone's always
wanting to imports and they
do all sorts of fake
things with CSS and JavaScript
to make imports work. And
everyone loves templates, Right? So
you could have HTML imports
without having the shadow dump.
So this is why we
keep them separate. And each
of them we poly fill
individually and different browsers have
implemented different things. So I
think Firefox is actually catchy.
I think Firefox is starting
to have the shadowed on
possibly behind a flag. And
I know what components are
coming to like edge and
Safari. So everybody's like working
slowly on each of these
four areas. Polymer makes something
called web components dot JS,
which is a polyfill that
it can drop in your
application to suddenly get what
components working, but not the
shadow dump. So polymers 0.5
back in the days used
to actually try to poly
fill the shadow Dom. So
makeup, basically this like super
fancy and encapsulate a dumb,
but it's actually really hard
to do it from outside
of the browser. So we
stopped doing that. Okay. So
let me see if I
can paraphrase. So I understand
what's going on. No, this
is good. This is not
sorry at all. You're educating
the people and myself included.
So web components is the
name for a collection of
specifications that are separate individual
and useful on their own.
Those are custom elements, which
we like Scott or the
cat element or whatever, or
Scott dash to date. Then
there's HTML imports, there's templates.
And then there's a shadow.
Dom Chrome supports these all
natively right now. Cause it's
almost like that's where Chrome
gets to play in practice
and get this stuff working.
And then it provides pressure
on other vendors and then
the web gets better for
everybody. Then I can get
polyfills that are JavaScript libraries
to make it like these
things are working on other
browsers that don't support natively.
And there's more than one
example. Like I know, I
know Mozilla has got one
called X tag is data
that's there polyfill for web.
Yeah. So it's much like
having different rendering engines. It's
good to have different polyfills
because they might do different
things. And because it's just
Java script, everybody can write
their own polyfill for things.
Okay. So yeah. Tag is,
is one of them Polymer,
a polyfill for web components,
Paula polymers a little bit
more than that. So polymer
is a library that helps
you write web components. So
it comes with a polyfill
and it comes with a
lot of sugaring around actually
writing these custom elements because
writing custom elements right now,
it's a lot of you
having to do things manually.
So it's exactly how you
would create in JavaScript and
HTML element manually. So you
do document, create, create elements,
span, and you would start
adding attributes to it by
hand. And it's really annoying.
And you would have to
do the same thing with
Scott dash date. So polymer
wraps it all around and
like this sugary delicious goodness,
it's butterflies and unicorns. And
you get to, you know,
read your markup in HTML
and you read to get
your, read your styles for
your custom element in CSS.
And there was like JavaScript
that tells you what that
element actually does. And then
Palmer wraps it up and
talks to the browser and
tells the browser, listen, I
have a custom element for
you. This is what it
is and does all the
grunt work for you. Okay,
cool. So I'm looking at
the polymer page and there's
a really great example, which
is like extremely clear. I
want to have a Google
map in the past. I
would make a div, I
give it a certain ID
or a certain class I'd
include a bunch of crap.
I'd have to include CSS
and JavaScript and all that
kind of stuff. Now I
say here's the polyfill which
in this case is web
components. And then I import
the element, which is Google
map dot HTML. And I
say Google dash map. And
now that Google dash map,
that kind of reminds me
about data hyphen star, which
was like an attribute you
would put on HTML five
stuff, right? Data hyphen is
like a prefix and then
anyone else can put anything
they want to at the
end. Right. But you're, you
can only prefix like a
div, right? So, right. So
at the end of the
day, you're still just like,
copy pasting this giant block
of code into your main
document and everybody can inspect
it. Everybody can style it
by accident. Like if your
thing that has the data
dash map would have a
class, I dunno, called map.
And somebody else also uses
a class called map. Well,
that elements hosts. But if
you, if you include Google
dash map, it doesn't matter
what it does. You just
now have Google dash map
just like you would have
a div. Okay. So then
I can have Google dash
map or Microsoft dash map
and all that kind of
stuff. And they live together
and they don't hurt each
other. Yeah. Cats and dogs
living together. It's perfect. So,
but what about this thing
that we complained about for
years called vendor prefixes? What's
the difference between having a,
a web component that has
a prefix and vendor prefixes
cause vendor prefixes, we agreed
were bad. Right? So this
isn't, so it's the Google
is not a prefix year.
It's just, we're trying to
explain it. It's actually using
the Google maps API, right?
It could be called anything
you want is just an
element. For example, polyman makes
elements. The things that I
work on are called paper
dash and they're just like
material design implementations of really
common UI elements, like a
paper button, which is the
material design look of a
button. Okay. So it's just
a scoping exercise. Yeah. But
like, if you, if you
use a Google dash map
in IE or Google dash
mapping Chrome, it's going to
look and it's going to
behave exactly the same. It's
not a different element. It's
not implemented differently for a
browser, much like how div
works exactly the same and
naive and exactly the same
in Chrome. Okay. That makes
sense. So vendor prefixes were
bad because it was something
that didn't work everywhere. And
it was a way of
saying our browser is special
and here's a thing we
made up well, web components
and saying like a prefix,
it's just like a namespace
in Java or you're just
kind of setting aside some
scoping area and then Google
dash school dash that yeah,
Exactly. You could call it
anything prefixes where I'm Chrome
and I've come up with
border blocks, but I'm really
nervous about calling it border
box because nobody else has
border blocks. I'm clinical it,
you know, WebKit dashboard or
bugs. Cause we use WebKit
and then Mozilla comes around
and mistakes remained. This is
the future that we live
in where boxes are. Okay.
So is this like, I
know how, remember how everything
was like web 2.0 blah,
blah, blah. Like it does
kind of feel like web
components is the next step
for the web. God, I
hope so. They're my favorite
thing ever. Does it really
just make life better? Really?
Do you get to stop
like writing this diff soup
that you always have to
write where you're like, I'm
going to make this really
fancy animated image carousel and
I have 17 nested. It
was an images and it's
great. Yeah. And I would
just have to, like, you
can put that away in
a closet and be like,
listen, somebody has done this.
Look at my nice little
markup in my main index
dot HTML. I'm just saying
image carousel. And that's it.
What about Styling? Cause I
think about like when I
bring in like YouTube and
beds that ends up bringing
in an eye frame, which
is kind of an I
frame is kind of a
poor man's scoping exercise, you
know? But inevitably we want
to reach into that and
style that. So we want
to change stuff. Could I
change a web component from
there? Yes. So this is
also a separate working on.
So here's the thing. Input,
typical state surprise. It's actually
a custom element. It's using
the shadow Dom behind closed
doors. But nobody's been telling
you because the web platform
keeps secrets away from you
as a developer, but it's
actually, I know. So input
equals date. Whenever you click
on it, do you get
this like giant drop down
that has the date. Right.
But you've never seen it
in markup. Like you only
see input typicals. It, it
lives somewhere and that's, that's
the shadow Dom. So the
shadow norm is not exposed
to you in your, in
your markup and you can't
actually get to it and
style it. Like you've, it's
very hard to actually style
that drop down. There's these
like magical web kids, selectors
pseudo selector. So you're saying
that the little drop down
the calendar that I never,
I can't see your touch,
but I know it exists.
Yeah. I just, in my
mind, I just put that
in the, it was done
natively category. It is, but
it's in the shadow down,
but it is in the
shadows. Yeah. We've always had
shadow dogs for these are
things like that. It's just,
we haven't had them as
developers, which I think is
unfair. Yeah. So you can't
style it, right? Because it's
in the shadow, Dom it's
in a castle. So when
you think of a web
component as a castle, you
can't just go into that
castle willingly. So the spec
that we're working on is
custom properties. And this is
basically you as an element
designer, have the ability to
say, listen, element user. I
know you're going to want
to style this thing. So
you're going to probably want
to style the background of
it and like the font
style and the colors. So
I'm going to expose these
CSS properties to you. And
they're going to be prefixed
with a dash dash so
that the browser knows they're
like special properties that should
look into the shadow, but
they're just normal CSS properties.
And you would use them
this as you would, us
as properties. So ideally in
a perfect world input type
equals date would have the
CSS property called dropdown background
and drop down button color
and drop down button style.
And you could make it
actually match your application instead
of the thing we have
now. Okay. So that's interesting.
That means that the web
component makes a conscious decision
to expose these things. Cause
you don't want to give
the user too much power,
right? Like the good benefit
of what components is that
they're encapsulated so random, you
know, CSS libraries where I'm
just like stumble over it
and be like, I'm going
to make everything blue. So
you, as an element designer
are going to be like,
these are the things that
I know you're going to
want and I'm going to
give them to you so
that you can style them.
If you want them, you
don't have to stop and
you can use a default
style style. But if you
want to, here are the
properties that you care about.
You know, what's so crazy
about this is it feels
like HTML and the web
is actually becoming a proper
application platform with a maturity.
Right. And everything is basically
HTML is just better. We
have finally like made HTML
useful, Even, even more like
web components. I'm thinking about
the past where, you know,
you've got fields in C
plus plus, or, you know,
and then you've got public
properties. Custom properties are really
public properties that are, have
a backing. Yeah, exactly. That's
crazy. Okay. So then dash
dash is the convention That's
just basically tells the browser.
I'm not typing chunk. This
is the thing you care
about. I see. Okay. So
then Scott dash date is
totally scoped. It's its own
castle, but I kind of
punch a hole in a
couple of spots and I'll
say, Yeah, I call them
bridges. You make little bridges
to get into. So, you
know, dash dash accent color
or dash dash main color.
And now only those things
can. Yes. And because that's
a little bit annoying, so
it can get like, imagine
you have made a button
and you were like, listen,
I've given you a city
and I've given you background
color, but then you use
it comes in. It's like,
Oh, I really want Pat
it. And you're like, cool.
Here has to have patting.
And there was like, Oh,
padding is great. Capacity is
great. I really want, I
don't know, text shadow. So
we are also working on
creating the spec called mixes.
So basically you've exposed this
like specific properties that you
think are super useful, but
because you don't have, you
know, a future vision, you're
not a mind reader. You
can also expose these like
hooks where you can put
a bag of properties. So
let's say in the button
here, all the things that
I've thought about in case
there's anything I haven't thought
about, here's your hook called
apply. Like it's called the
say, I dunno, paper button.
And you can define an
entire block of CSS properties
in there, like normal CSS.
And it's just going to
get teleported in there. So
now you can sell things
with like the explicit custom
properties that somebody defined for
you and also a giant
bag of properties in case
there's something we haven't thought
about because we wanted this
to be like super easy
to use. We don't want
to make it hard for
you. So does that mean
though? I might pick a
web component from some vendor
or some open source, my
favorite open source person. And
then I find that they
did not expose something. And
then I shake my fist
because they didn't let me
do that. Yes. So hopefully
they've done it correctly if
they haven't. And this is
a thing that happens, like
it's happened to us. We
haven't thought of everything. Thankfully
everything's open source. You can
just open an issue and
because your favorite person actually
checks the issues, they're going
to fix it for you
really quick. But you said
I can open an issue,
but I think about things
like override, which is both
super powerful, but also totally
evil. Oh, so yeah. So
it makes it, so it
makes sense are basically kind
of like override. So they,
if you, if you've created
a mix in hook there,
you as a user, it
could be like, I know
you've given me these styles.
I'm just going to stumble
over them. But unless the,
unless the, is the element
designer made that for you,
you're not going to be
able to just stomp over
anything. Cause it's a castle,
right. If you don't have
a bridge to get into
that castle, you can't get
into the castle. Okay, cool.
That makes sense. All right.
So I understand web components
and I understand what the
collection of things that are
moving the web forward are
that roll up into this
thing that we call web
components then. So then polymer
includes a polyfill that gets
me started. But then what
is polymer itself? It's much
more than web components. Yeah.
So polymers the library that
makes this super easy to
use. So if you want
to write your own web
components, they're much easier than
like what native code lets
you do right now. So
you get to, you know,
write your markup, write your
styles in normally HTML, like
you would normally do it
and you don't have to
worry about how to actually
register this element. How to
tell the browser, this is
a custom element. We do
all of that for you.
And on top of that,
we also try to create
a giant library of ready
to use elements that you
can just like pick up
and drop in your application
and not actually worry about
how they're implemented and what
they do. They're just like,
it looked like material design
elements, and you can just
use them anywhere you want.
Okay. And you, since you're
you were you to work
for Google, presumably is it
true that Google is like
a consumer of these things
as Google and to start
building stuff with polymers, It's
actually a super exciting. So
there's like this giant adoption
of polymer inside of Google.
So there a couple of
hundred internal apps that use
it, but there's really big
apps that we're super excited
about. So YouTube gaming recently
released and that's written Olin
polymer and Google play music
and Google patents. I believe
patent search. All of these
are written in polymer and
yeah. And they're like out
there and a lot of
people use them and they're
using code that I write,
which is really exciting, Pretty
slick. So is there a
reason that the person who's
maybe listening to the show
shouldn't use polymer? Like maybe
they just have to go
to work and I don't
know, use a horrible browser.
That's like dead or We,
so we support everything. So
are you 10 and up
in Safari seven and up.
So if you're using six,
I'm very sorry for you
also stop using Isaacs, but
please, and maybe not. And
I would like to kill
nine to five, but if
you're using any of these
like pasture releases, browser is
we support them. So your
things work. Okay. So any
reasonably evergreen browser, is it
good? Exactly. And we try
to stay up to date
with all the things. So
whenever anything changes any of
the new browsers, we would
try to catch up with
that. And if I go
to web components.org, I can
see like this chart that
says, you know, here's, you
know, green for the ones,
just basically the can I
use for web components. It
looks like under for IE
and edge, a bunch of
stuff is under consideration is
web components, something that is
just a Google thing, or
do you all like hang
out with the edge people
and tell them that they
should do it too? Or
how does that work? So
it's definitely web components is
not a Google thing. What
components is a web platform
spec thing. And there's the
thing called face-to-faces where all
the browser vendors get together
and they talk about it.
And they're like, listen, where
we would like to talk
about the shadow. We think
the shadow should be implement
implemented. And then all the
browsers talk about their concerns,
what they think they should
happen. And then we all
agree on a thing that's
going to happen. Edge is
actually super excited about everything,
which is one of my
favorite things ever. I'm super
excited for it to become
a thing because I think
it's great. I think that
well, cause I wasn't gonna
get shuttled down anytime soon,
but it just actually implemented.
There's somebody who's working right
now on it. And there's
somebody as Safari who was
working on the shadow spec.
So these are things that,
you know, the future is
coming. The future is here.
It's no longer under consideration.
No, I was worried that
Safari was going to become
the new IAE. A Safari
was going to be, I
have rants about this and
I'm going to be super
nice about it. But no
up until recently, so far,
he was not very on
board with any of the
new future respects, but now
they're finally they've woken up.
I think it's people got
angry with them, so. Okay.
That's cool. So they're listening.
So then we won't maybe
have a new IEP. Everyone
will be evergreen to get
them. Yeah. So in like
a few, the future that
I dream about and like
a year or two is
that you no longer need
to poly fill these things
and that's going to make
everything faster because poly feeling
is not accurate. Both of
those, the little slope, right?
Do you have to do
a little bit of work
before you pay trenders? So
in the future, everybody's going
to speak web components. So
now we can focus on,
you know, we can focus
on polymer writing libraries, it
help you write easy web
components versus doing a lot
of work. So that's a
far he understands. What about
proponent is Now? If I
go to elements dot polymer,
dash project.org, there's this kind
of cool. What's the word
here? This is catalog, but
it's done like a, a
table of, of elements. So
it's where we, so we
have this thing where we
thought about the elements being
like chemical, like the table
of elements in chemistry. Yeah.
So we have lines like
product lines of elements. So
I run, I run I'm
Canadian. I'm sorry. I pronounced
Ivan really funny. Everybody makes
fun of iron when you
say so they're like our
core elements are, think that
like the building blocks of
things, they're not pretty, but
they're like, they're, they're the
functionality of things. Cause that's
kind of what iron is.
And then on top of
it, it's paper. So paper
is material design. It's shiny.
It's pretty, it's, you know,
glowing, all the good things.
And then we have something
called the gold elements and
the gold elements are, you
know, shiny e-commerce things. So
they're like credit card validators
and things that you can
make a checkout form so
that it's super easy to
make checkout forms on your
website. This is where I
think things get really interesting
because we, we, we, I
mean, I've built large banking
systems. I've built e-commerce systems.
And the idea that I'm
doing this all with input
type equals text. Yeah. So
we've created things like there
is a gold CC input.
So it's basically, it looks
like a shiny text field.
And when you stop, you
start typing your credit card,
it will validate. It will
be like, yep, this is
a valid MasterCard. This is
not a valid MasterCard. This
is jibberish. You have tip
type in gibberish. And we
have this for like zip
codes and CVC validators that
because CVC has different rules
based on, you know, it's
in a MasterCard, it's an
Emacs and things like that.
So you're absolutely convinced like
this is the future. This
is the way like, if
you were, if you worked,
if you didn't work at
Google, let's say you worked
at like random insurance company
and you're in the middle
of building like the next
great text boxes over data
system. Yes. I think this
is a future because I
think it's been 20 years
that we've been using input
type equals search and it's
clearly not working out and
we have to do better.
And I think this is,
I want to believe in
the web platform. I think
the web platform is going
to win. And I think
this is part of it
winning Very, very cool. Well,
I really appreciate you chatting
with me today. Thanks so
much. This was awesome. Awesome.
So I'm going to put
links to everything in the
show notes too. Monica is
a speaker deck account, which
by the way, I'm totally
jealous of all of your
decks look way better than
mine. So I, I kind
of slightly hate you because
your slides are awesome. I
can teach you all of
these things. This is learnable.
Okay. Well maybe that's another
show where you teach me
how to make decent slides
because I need to step
up. My slides look like
they're from the nineties and
I'll put links to polymer
project and to our speaker
deck and, and Twitter, as
well as web components. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .